# Optimizing an ML Pipeline in Azure

## Overview
This project is part of the Udacity Azure ML Engineer Nanodegree.
In this project, I built and optimize an Azure ML pipeline using the Python SDK and a provided Scikit-learn model.

The model building was in two part, the first part I created an Azure ML pipeline using hyperdrive to choose the optimal hyperameters of a Scikit-learn logistic regression model.

The second part I configured and run an Azure AutoML model on the same dataset and the best model chosen.

The two models were compared to see which one perormed better interms of accuracy.

>**[Logistic Regresion + Hyperdrive] vs [Azure Auto ML]**

>*Hyperdrive: is a python package that automates the process of choosing the best hyperparameters for your machine learning model.*


## Summary
The dataset contains 32,950 observations. Each of the observations corresponds to an individual information about a person (eg. Age, Marital Status, Education level), however, the source and the data dictionary wasn't given. 

The dataset has 20 features and one binary target variable y. We seek to predict the target variable y with the 20 features.

**In 1-2 sentences, explain the solution: e.g. "The best performing model was a ..."**

The solution to this problem is a binary classification model capable of predicting the class `yes` or `no` of the target variable `y`. The best performing model was a `VotingEnsemble` model by the Azure AutoML run with an Accuracy of `0.91721`. This outperformed the logistic regression model optimized by `Hyperdrive`.


## Scikit-learn Pipeline
**Explain the pipeline architecture, including data, hyperparameter tuning, and classification algorithm.**

A csv dataset was injested into a python environment from a URL


**What are the benefits of the parameter sampler you chose?**
Random Parameter Sampling was chosen as the Hyperparameter tuning algorithm. The benefit of this search algorithm is that it provides a good model by randomly selecting hyperparameter values from a defined search space. This makes it less computational intensive and much faster. It also supports early stoping policy.

**What are the benefits of the early stopping policy you chose?**
It's early stoping policy is beneficial because it terminates low performance runs to pave way for runs they can produce good results.

## AutoML
**In 1-2 sentences, describe the model and hyperparameters generated by AutoML.**
AutoML generated close to about 50 models and the best model which was chosen had the highest accuracy metric as well as the optimal hyperameters.

## Pipeline comparison
**Compare the two models and their performance. What are the differences in accuracy? In architecture? If there was a difference, why do you think there was one?**
The best model produced by AzureML outperformed that of the Hyperdrive model. The accuracy of AutoML was .... and that of the Hyperdrive was ... There was a slight difference in the performance and this was due to the fact that different Machine Learning Algorithms were used in AutoML in combination with different Hyperdrive hyperparameter optimization. However, the hyperdrive model only used a single machine learning algorithm together with a single hyperparameter optimization technic.

## Future work
**What are some areas of improvement for future experiments? Why might these improvements help the model?**

## Proof of cluster clean up
**If you did not delete your compute cluster in the code, please complete this section. Otherwise, delete this section.**
**Image of cluster marked for deletion**
